develop/README.md, before:

The use and interpretation of these files may require:

- Agda
- The Agda Standard Library
- The Agda Prelude

The directory structure includes:

- [OSCAR.agda-lib](OSCAR.agda-lib), an Agda library file for [src](src).
- [src](src), where research and development takes place. Included here are:
  - [BurnAfterReading](src/BurnAfterReading.lagda.md), thoughts collected while trying to metaprogram my way to a type theory; as the name suggests, the file is slated for "retirement".
  - [Metaprogramming](src/Metaprogramming.lagda.md), a (currently partial) work-through of Conor McBride's [Dependently Typed Metaprogramming (in Agda)](../doc/Dependently%20Typed%20Metaprogramming%20(in%20Agda)-Conor%20McBride-August-26-2013.pdf).
  - [Termination](src/Termination.lagda.md), an (unfinished) study of a problem I had passing the termination-checker.
  - [Type](src/Type.lagda.md), an (unfinished) development of a (or possibly several) type theory(ies) sufficient for type-checking decidability and quasi-decidable term inference.

Commit message:

Add Alphabet.lagda.md: models of term-like languages

develop/README.md, after:

The use and interpretation of these files may require:

- Agda
- The Agda Standard Library
- The Agda Prelude

The directory structure includes:

- [OSCAR.agda-lib](OSCAR.agda-lib), an Agda library file for [src](src).
- [src](src), where research and development takes place. Included here are:
  - [Alphabet](src/Alphabet.lagda.md), a development of a model of term-like languages, but insufficient to describe weakening and substitution.
  - [BurnAfterReading](src/BurnAfterReading.lagda.md), thoughts collected while trying to metaprogram my way to a type theory; as the name suggests, the file is slated for "retirement".
  - [Metaprogramming](src/Metaprogramming.lagda.md), a (currently partial) work-through of Conor McBride's [Dependently Typed Metaprogramming (in Agda)](../doc/Dependently%20Typed%20Metaprogramming%20(in%20Agda)-Conor%20McBride-August-26-2013.pdf).
  - [Termination](src/Termination.lagda.md), an (unfinished) study of a problem I had passing the termination-checker.
  - [Type](src/Type.lagda.md), an (unfinished) development of a (or possibly several) type theory(ies) sufficient for type-checking decidability and quasi-decidable term inference.
