develop/src/README.md, before:

Of particular interest:

- [TODO](TODO.md), where things that might get done get talked about.

Also hereon:

- [Alphabet](Alphabet.lagda.md), a development of a model of term-like languages, but insufficient to describe weakening and substitution.
- [BurnAfterReading](BurnAfterReading.lagda.md), thoughts collected while trying to metaprogram my way to a type theory; as the name suggests, the file is slated for "retirement".
- [Generality](Generality.lagda.md), an exploration of what it means to be "more generally useful than".
- [Metaprogramming](Metaprogramming.lagda.md), a (currently partial) work-through of Conor McBride's [Dependently Typed Metaprogramming (in Agda)](../../doc/Dependently%20Typed%20Metaprogramming%20(in%20Agda)-Conor%20McBride-August-26-2013.pdf).
- [Termination](Termination.lagda.md), an (unfinished) study of a problem I had passing the termination-checker.
- [Type](Type.lagda.md), an (unfinished) development of a (or possibly several) type theory(ies) sufficient for type-checking decidability and quasi-decidable term inference.

Commit message:

[Type] add (unfinished) prototype from HoTT

develop/src/README.md, after:

Of particular interest:

- [TODO](TODO.md), where things that might get done get talked about.

Also hereon:

- [Alphabet](Alphabet.lagda.md), a development of a model of term-like languages, but insufficient to describe weakening and substitution.
- [BurnAfterReading](BurnAfterReading.lagda.md), thoughts collected while trying to metaprogram my way to a type theory; as the name suggests, the file is slated for "retirement".
- [Generality](Generality.lagda.md), an exploration of what it means to be "more generally useful than".
- [Metaprogramming](Metaprogramming.lagda.md), a (currently partial) work-through of Conor McBride's [Dependently Typed Metaprogramming (in Agda)](../../doc/Dependently%20Typed%20Metaprogramming%20(in%20Agda)-Conor%20McBride-August-26-2013.pdf).
- [Termination](Termination.lagda.md), an (unfinished) study of a problem I had passing the termination-checker.
- [Type](Type.lagda.md), an (unfinished) development of a (or possibly several) type theory(ies) sufficient for type-checking decidability and quasi-decidable term inference. The prototypical type theory is derived from the [HoTT book](../../doc/hott-online-1075-g3c53219.pdf).
